+++
title = "August 12, 2022"
hascode = true
date = Date(2022, 8, 12)
rss = "The goings ons of today"

tags = ["journal", "productivity", "julia", "computational_thinking"]
+++

# August 12, 2022

\tableofcontents

## What I learned today
- DevOps: how to configure a Kubernetes cluster and expose its applications through their containers, services, ingresses, and hostnames.

## Reflection
It's been a busy week in my personal life and I have not had much free time. I'm already losing sleep to get work done, but I want to force some time to learn something today. The hard part is choosing something to work on! Whatever I choose to do, I want to see it through to the end!

I think I will choose to follow computational thinking with Julia from MIT, because of three reasons:
1. I want to learn to model in Julia.
2. It's written in Julia, so I can get better at the language and also communicate it through this website which is written in a [Julia framework](https://franklinjl.org/workflow/index.html#tag_pages).
3. It has a structured course load.

**I've had multiple false starts with this course. Here's to the first true start**

## Notes on Introduction to Computational Thinking
> [Link to course](https://computationalthinking.mit.edu/Spring21/)

### 1.1 Images as data and arrays
This lecture introduces the student to Julia. It uses images to demonstrate how Julia's type system can be used to turn matrices into displayable pixels.

A goal of this lecture is to implement edge detection in an image.

```julia:philip_img
using ImageShow, FileIO, ImageIO, Colors, Plots
url = "https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6933510/107239146-dcc3fd00-6a28-11eb-8c7b-41aaf6618935.png"

philip_filename = download(url) # download to a local file. The filename is returned
philip = load(philip_filename)
philip_html = philip

plot(philip_html)
savefig(joinpath(@OUTPUT, "philip.svg"))

```

\fig{philip}

Wow, it's awesome you can display images as plots!
The lecture teaches that images are RGB arrays, where RGB comes from some package...

## References

* \biblabel{Edelman}{3Blue1Briown} **Edelman**, **3Blue1Brown**, 2020-2021. [Introduction to computational thinking](https://computationalthinking.mit.edu/Spring21/)

